One of the biggest issues you're going to
have to deal with if you're going to start
doing predictive analytics, is dealing
with some of the organizational issues.
These can be politics,
these can be technology, but
ultimately remember what we're doing.
We're taking data, big data if you
have it, we're estimating some models.
That requires technology, and
then base on those models
I'm going to start changing
my organization, guess what?
Some people are going to win and
some people are going to lose.
You may find out that an intuition or
hypothesis you had is completely wrong.
The person who's basically made
their career based on intuition is
going to be real happy on this.
So here are some of the issues that
you're going to need to think about,
if you're going to start
doing predictive analytics.
Okay, some of the common reasons why
companies have trouble doing this right.
Insufficient model development right?
You can do data mining, which has
a lot of benefits doing data mining,
but ultimately what you want to know is,
right.
What leads to what?
And what actions can I actually
take as a company to do this?
So even if you do the data mining,
you need to again start doing this peeling
back the onion which means, you need
to think about what these linkages are.
For my strategy, what do I think
this causal business model is?
How is it that I'm
going to implement this.
Will I think that A is going to
lead to B is going to lead to C?
Let's see, but you need to lay that out.
The other problem I've seen in a lot
of companies is, they will ask me,
okay, what's best practices.
Or I saw this benchmarking model, or
this generic measurement framework
like the balance scorecard.
So I'm going to use that to
pick my performance measures.
Well these problems with that.
Again, strategic advantage means you're
doing something different than your
competitors.
So the last thing I want to
do is benchmark myself and
do exactly what they're doing.
The other problem with generic
measurement frameworks, they're generic.
Which means it says okay,
everybody should be doing this.
Now what you want to do is tailor
both the measures that you track, and
the analysis you do to
the strategy of your company.
So if I think I'm going to
compete on a different dimension,
I do not want to be doing
what the other guy did.
So this means there's going to
be a lot of up front,
starting with your strategy to decide,
here's the analytic models I want to
estimate, it's not purely statistics.
And based on that, what are the actions
that we as a company can take?
Another problem you have is,
we are taking measures, right?
Measures can be good.
Measures can be really bad.
Couple of reasons of why you
might have measures that are bad,
are what are called
psychometric properties.
One, does it really pick up
what you claim it's picking up?
Right, you're trying to
estimate some construct, and
I gotta find some way of measuring
this kind of intangible thing.
Well is that measure you have is that
really picking up that intangible you
care about?
And the other thing is,
is this influenced by so
many other things that it bounces up and
down all over the place.
And I have no idea whether that means
you're doing well or not doing well.
Now this really becomes a problem when
you start using surveys for questions.
One of the problems is you
may have too few questions.
Right, like how satisfied are you,
a little, a lot, and
that's the only question I ask you.
That doesn't help me much afterwards.
because even if I find a relationship,
I don't know which dimensions of
satisfaction you answered about, and
I don't know what to do as a manager.
Another one with scales is,
you have too few scale points.
You're using one to three,
I'm not satisfied, I'm very satisfied, or
I'm in the middle.
That doesn't really tell you a lot.
Or you use what's called
the top box measure.
Say your satisfaction skill
goes from one to five,
what percentage of the people are at five?
That may be fine as we saw
in some of the examples.
In other examples it may not be fine.
You need to do the analysis of whether
moving everybody to the top of the box
even makes any sense.
But again what you would
like to have are measures,
what's called good signal to noise ratio.
Signal means it's responsive
to managerial actions.
When they take an action I like,
it goes up.
When they take an action that's not good,
it goes down.
So it's responsive.
Noise means it's not
effected by all kinds of
other stuff that are outside
of your company's control.
It's not just bouncing all up and down.
So if you could pick measures, or
analyze measures that have high signal.
They respond to the actions we take.
And low noise, they're not affected by
all kinds of stuff outside our control.
That's going to help you when you do
the statistics, because it's more
likely you're going to find
the relationships that are really there.
Some other reasons that people
have trouble doing these analysis.
You're measuring the wrong attributes.
Again, customer satisfaction.
You can ask me do I like the facility.
Well, I could answer that,
but that's not a question
that has anything to do with whether
I'm going to come back or not.
So you have to make sure, again, when
you do the analysis, when you have these
measures, are you measuring things
that actually impact behaviors?
So again, that's peeling back the onion.
Some other problems are really
organizational right?
Those are really kind of, are your
measures good are your measures bad.
Some of it is the fact that it's not
that we don't do analytics in companies.
We do analytics.
Some's more rigorous than others,
but we do it in little pockets, or
as we call them islands of analysis for
strategy silos.
Everybody's doing their own little
analysis, the marketing guys,
the strategy guys, the operations people,
nobody ever talks to each other.
You're all making action plans
based on your own analysis.
And don't look at how
are they interdependent, or
even how does one analysis in
one part of your department,
impact analysis done by the other
part of the department.
Again, strategy is trying to
tie all this stuff together, so
you need to think about
how can we do this?
The other thing is, you need to figure out
what is your intuition in the first place.
You may not know this, or think about
this, but you do have hypotheses about
what's going to make your company work,
that's called strategy.
Right.
You do have intuition that if this
happens, I think something
else is going to happen, but
in a lot of cases we never
actually write that down.
Well, to do the analytics and
to figure out which model I estimate,
you should write down, what is intuition.
What do we think is driving success?
What are our hypotheses here.
Spend the time upfront trying to figure
out what are the relationships you want to
test, before you just start going off and
doing the statistics on this.
Another problem, is as companies say
we have lots of data, no information.
Data's really not a problem,
think about most companies,
we got more data then we
know what to do with.
It's getting even worse now,
because storage costs are so low.
We save everything.
But what you need again, are the resources
that the appropriate skills sets to
actually analyze it,
to turn data in the information.
Now skills sets does not mean you've
got always great statisticians,
yes you need that.
The other thing you need though,
is the business people that tell us
statisticians, here's what we need to
estimate or here's what we need to know.
Because ultimately the predictive
analytics need to be turned into
action plans.
And that's where it requires
some mix of business skills and
statistical skills on there.
The other thing is you need to
dedicate resources to this.
Its not like most of us have time in
our day to actually do analytics.
Where are the resources going to go, and
do that Ideally what you'd like to do up
front, is what I call proof of concept.
Pick off a small analytics project,
do it, show that it works.
Pick an area where you're pretty
sure I can learn a lot on this.
And once you do that,
you're going to start getting
the resources committed to it.
Instead of saying, I'm going to analyze
the whole company in one big fell swoop,
start out small, learn how to do it and
show proof of concept.
We have the other issue
which is technology.
You could have the greatest data base
in the world, okay, we went out and
we bought Oracle, we bought SAP,
we have a relational data base.
That in theory all the data supposed
to be in this relational database.
In theory.
In practice,
though, how you can actually access
the data depends on how you coded it.
Okay.
And here's
the problem I've had in companies.
You get in there and they say, we want to
link up employees to customers to
did the clients decide
to keep our contract?
So that's fine, you've got date on
the client, did they renew or not.
Right?
You got data on customer
satisfaction stuff.
You got data on employees.
Well it turns out the employees stuff
was never coded up to the client level,
so I can't match that up.
The customer satisfaction thing was for
the whole company, but you have 14
different projects with that company and
they're only doing one at a time.
You need to think in advance.
How are you going to code the data
before it goes into the database?
And think forward, think about four,
five years from now,
I may want to do analytics.
Make it as granular as possible
when you put it into the database.
You can always roll things up,
you can never roll it back down.
The other thing you should check on is,
when somebody says it's something like
defect rates,
are they defining it the same way?
We've gone in the companies where you,
and here's an example from an auto plant.
Two different auto plants
in the same company,
each one defined defects differently.
So trying to match those up when they
didn't even find defects the same way,
that's going to be hard to do.
So that's a problem that you have on this.
Another big problem,
remember ultimately we're trying
to predict financial outcomes.
The problem is,
most of your financial data is going to
come out of your accounting system.
Some of the outcomes that you
want to predict are not things that
naturally come out of
an accounting system.
And one good one would be
customer profitability.
Not how profitable the product is,
not how profitable division is.
For this customer,
am I making money on that customer or not?
Well, that's not naturally a way we
gather data in an accounting system.
So, until you can start actually
gathering that financial data that way,
it's going to be hard to
predict the model you want.
Now, maybe the case you say,
I want to do this in the future,
we start tracking it that way.
But that isn't limitation.
Finally, politics is everywhere.
Okay, you need to worry
about things data fiefdoms.
Data is strength.
Different parts of companies
don't like giving up data.
How can you get different
functions to start sharing?
To actually do this analytics,
linking non financials to financials.
I need the finance people, the marketing
people, the operations people,
to start sharing data.
This is not always very easy.
We've had companies where we've had to go
to the very highest levels of the C suite
to actually get different
functions to share the data.
The other one is, what do you do if you're
intuition doesn't appear to be true?
Here's somebody's who's made their
career based on their intuition.
And now you tell them, hey look,
maybe that intuition's not right.
Right.
A lot of people don't
want to know the answer.
I've staked my career
on this relationship.
It better be there.
All you can do is either show me I'm
right, which I already know I'm right,
or you're going to tell me I'm wrong,
which I don't want to know.
I do not want to know the issue,
the answer to this thing.
You've got to worry a bit
about the politics upfront.
And the organizational power issues.
Is this going to shift when you start
saying the money should be invested here
versus there?
What's going to happen?
So given those issues,
this can be a little tricky, but
it doesn't really matter.
I mean,
ultimately this is where it's going.
We are going to start analytics,
like it or not.
You need to at least think
about the politics up front.
But ultimately we're going to do it.
So here to conclude,
here's the key questions you want to ask.
First, what's the firm's business
model in the first place?
Forget the analytics,
start out with your strategic plan, right?
Start asking yourself how
specifically is this company or
this business unit expected to
create value for our organization?
Specifically lay out that
causal business model.
How is it that A is expected to lead to B,
is expected to lead to C?
Now, once you've done that, now you can if
that's the model I want to test, what data
do we have that are currently available
to test these value propositions?
Well as I said,
most companies data is not a problem.
Information is.
My recommendation is,
don't reinvent the wheel.
Don't start tracking new data.
Try to find data that you currently have
in the organization that's close enough to
what you need, and
start testing these relationships.
Don't start gathering new data, because
there's probably some there already.
Ask yourself, what is the desired
economic outcome you care about?
It doesn't have to be profits.
It could be revenues,
it could be revenue growth.
It could be if you look at contracts,
did we win the contract,
did we not win the contract.
It could be retention rates.
What are the economic outcomes?
And based on that, you can start gathering
the data and doing the analysis on this.
A really big question to ask yourself,
what's the appropriate unit of analysis?
It may not be the whole firm.
In fact it may be very hard to
do this at the firm, right.
Is it an office, is it a plant, a region?
Right, as you've seen in other videos,
it could be customers where
we do customer analytics.
It could be a product or
service a program or initiative.
Figure out for
the analysis you're trying to do,
what is the appropriate
unit of analysis there.
It doesn't have to be low level customers,
it doesn't have to be
the whole company in total.
So given the analytics in which you
want to answer, that could change.
And finally, you would like to make this
an ongoing process, not we did it once,
here's the answer we got.
Strategies change, competitors change,
the business world changes.
You need to keep doing the analytics to
say, does this relationship still exist?
How is it that you can set up
an organizational mechanism,
to ensure that you have this
ongoing analysis to include,
let me give you an example of
what some companies are doing.
What they do is set up quarterly meetings
with all their high level executives.
In each one of those meetings
they lay out some hypothesis
that we would like tested for
the next meeting.
Then the analytics group goes off and
they test these hypotheses,
they present the results
in the next quarter.
I guarantee you that when
you present the results,
a whole bunch of new
questions start coming up,
which lead to the next test of hypotheses
that we're going to do on there.
And by doing that, you've got an ongoing
mechanism of updating the results.
And again, peeling back this onion til
you get to the point where you can start
answering these questions and
ensuring this predictive analytics
becomes embedded in your company.
As opposed to becoming a just one
off exercise that you're going to
do maybe this year, maybe next year.
No.
This is an ongoing process as the world
changes faster and faster.
You need to set up an ongoing mechanism.
And with that, I'd like to thank you for
listening to this, and I
hope you can take some of the things I've
taught here and use it in your companies.
Because predictive analytics can be
incredibly powerful tool, both for
figuring out how your strategy is working,
and more importantly,
figuring out what's the biggest financial
payback when you start linking these
non-financial measures to
the financial measures.